xvi ’ 510131 os 300135 1.—vn.

gather some native iruits, which they heap up on broad
wheaten cakes, and 13113511 themselves with this 10οἀ under
the hospitable shade of a lolty tree. Alter eating the lruits‚
they are about to break and eat the wheaten cakes also, when
Iulus exclaims: “ Why, we are eating our tables!” This
is at once recognized as the harmless lulfillment 01 the dread
prophecy 01 Celaeno; and 101 the first time the weary Trojans
rejoice in the assurance that their wanderings are at an end.
They have reached the promised Hesperia.

At the time of Aeneas’s arrival, Latinus is king in Latium.
His daughter Laviniais betrothed to Turnus, king 01 the
Rutuli, a suitor lavored by the queen Amata. But Latinus

hasa misgiving, lor the oracle 01 Faunus, his prophetie sire, ³

has declared that Lavinia is to wed a foreigner and become the
mother of a posterity that shall rule the world. Accordingly,
when Aeneas sends an embassy with overtures 01 friendship,

Latinus graciously receives the envoys and cordially accepts ¹

the proffered alliance.

At this point, Juno again interposes to wreck the tortunes of 1

the hated Trojans. She sends Alecto. one 01 the Furies, who
incites Amata to stir up the matrons 01 Latium, and afterwards
goads Turnus to vengeance. Iulus, too, while hunting‚ kills a
favorite stag, and thereby rouses Tyrrhus, keeper 01 the royal
herds, to lury. At instigation 01 Tyrrhus, the peasantry take ¹

up arms. A conflict is precipitated in which two shepherds ¹

are slain by the Trojans. The whole country isinstantly in
arms, and Latinus is urged on every hand to declare war
against the strangers. Remonstrance is unavailing, and the
aged king shuts himself up in his palace and lays down the
reins 01 government.

The book closes with a long account 01 the mustering 01 the
ltalian tribes 101 war against the Trojans.

 

